AI #1663: Billed Cost and Effective Cost definitions update (#1678)
FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec: specification/glossary.md

# Glossary

<a name="glossary:accrual-based-accounting"><b>Accrual-Based Accounting</b></a>

> Accrual-based accounting records technology costs in the period when resources are utilized or services are delivered. This ensures expenses are recognized in the same timeframe as the value they provide, independent of when billing or invoicing occurs.

Author: should we capture the entitlements as well?

```suggestion
An accounting method used in technology cost management to record costs in the period when resources are utilized, services are delivered, or entitlements are available for or actually consumed (including unused or expired entitlements). This approach ensures that expenses are recognized in the same timeframe as the value they provide, independent of when charges are invoiced.

Note: In this context, accrual-based accounting refers to a FinOps-specific cost recognition method and not a formal accounting principle.
```

Additional question: Do we need to emphasize the **technology** costs?

Author: Resolving according to the agreement reached during the TF-3 meeting held on Jan 09, 2026.

A pricing approach where the cost of a particular resource or service is determined based on predefined quantities or tiers of usage. In these scenarios, the Pricing Unit and the corresponding Pricing Quantity can be different from the Consumed Unit and Consumed Quantity.

<a name="glossary:cash-based-accounting"><b>Cash-Based Accounting</b></a>

> In technology cost management, cash-based accounting records costs in the period when charges are invoiced. This aligns expenses with billing cycles, independent of when resources are utilized or services are delivered.

Author: ```suggestion
An accounting method used in technology cost management to record costs in the period when charges are invoiced. This approach aligns expenses with billing cycles, independent of when resources are utilized, services are delivered, or entitlements are available for or actually consumed (including unused or expired entitlements).

Note: In this context, cash-based accounting refers to a FinOps-specific cost recognition method and not a formal accounting principle.
```

Author: Resolving according to the agreement reached during the TF-3 meeting held on Jan 09, 2026.

A specification-defined categorical attribute that provides context or categorization to billing data.

<a name="glossary:entitlement"><b>Entitlement</b></a>

> A quantifiable right to receive financial value from a provider, arising from a contract, purchase, or grant. Entitlements define benefits a customer can access or apply, independent of whether resources have been consumed.

Author: For convenience, I’m including the glossary definition for Credit along with the related normative requirements, so we can discuss whether credits should be considered a form of entitlement and whether that distinction is actually relevant in this context.

> **Credit:** 
> A financial incentive or allowance granted by a service provider unrelated to other past/current/future charges.

> * When ChargeCategory is not "Usage" or "Purchase", EffectiveCost adheres to the following additional requirements:
EffectiveCost of a charge calculated based on other charges (e.g., when the ChargeCategory is "Tax") MUST be calculated based on the EffectiveCost of those related charges.
>   * ...
>   * EffectiveCost of a charge unrelated to other charges (e.g., when the ChargeCategory is "Credit") MUST match the BilledCost.

Author: Resolved by removing glossary term "Entitlement" per TF-3 meeting on Jan 9, 2026
